hello everybody it's Javier the guy that
looks like that tough guy meme from a
few years back so today I'm going to be
talking reacting responding to a very
viral tweet that was made by the
infamous Nick Gurley the Tweet was this
the Airbnb collapse is real Revenue are
50 down nearly 50 in cities like Phoenix
and Austin watch out for the wave of
force selling from Airbnb owners later
this year and areas hit hardest by the
revenue collapse breaks down his thing
now here's the thing doesn't necessarily
say there's a market collapse happening
in the tweets but clearly we can say
four days ago Airbnb owners are about to
sell massive housing crash coming that's
why the lights are red ladies and
gentlemen because the market crash is
coming again you know when I look at
things like this I ask myself what can I
bring of value I can actually bring you
some actual local data from Phoenix
Arizona and and how these Airbnb
listings are impacting buyers and I can
share some of my insights to just kind
of just give you guys a more realistic
perspective because here's the thing
whenever I see a market prediction like
this the first thing I do is I research
the person making it okay and when we're
gonna re if we research the person
making this video
we can go we can look at the videos we
can go back and we can just go see a
good idea of what's being posted okay
fed destroyed the housing market crash
crash crash crash leaving YouTube return
to YouTube
crash crash so for for many years now
the crash has been coming the rates
dropped the mouse housing crash is
coming 22 housing crash warning the
rates increase there's a housing crash
so already just always get a good idea
of who you're dealing with when you
first see a theory like this okay so now
that we have that we're not going to
allow ourselves to get emotional we're
not going to get too crazy we're not
going to get too wrapped up into it
let's actually look at the data that's
being presented so first and foremost
the data is being collected from all the
rooms okay so he's getting this data
from all the rooms and he put it into
these charts so that's what we're
looking at here we're not looking at
multiple verified sources we're not
looking at like a some kind of major
like
news like saying this there's one
website who's doing this and this is
where he's getting the data from so
according to this basically the
situation is that there are one million
Airbnb VRBO rentals and there is only
570 000 homes for sale so essentially
the gist of it is there's going to be so
many people that are going to let go of
the airbnbs and VR bills it's gonna
bring Supply and increase it to such an
extent that the housing market will
crash massive housing crash coming
Ground Zero for Airbnb collapses like
this is Phoenix where the short-term
rentals 18 000 are more than a double
for sale listings uh makes the huge
Airbnb Supply with revenues down you get
a cocktail of massive for selling well
let's verify that so first and foremost
is there 8 000 houses for sale no
there's actually 11 346 and if you look
at it coming soon if we add that there
there's about 11 910 okay so 8 000 is
not accurate now here's the thing when
you're these guys get data from the
national source so first thing I'm going
to tell you this isn't even a how-to
video but I'm going to make it a how-to
video when you're looking at predictions
like this always
double check with your local data and uh
newbie Airbnb owners that bought over
the last one or two years are in trouble
they got at a high price they have a
high monthly payment and a little margin
for error
um and some seasoned ones are going to
have more work with here's the thing I
think anybody who bought a house over
the last year for investment purposes if
they bought it for an Airbnb purpose I
hope that they plan for this because
yeah if you bought over the last year
rates with prices going down and rates
high you're in a bad spot but the thing
is a lot of these folks bought over the
last five ten years and either they they
locked in two things they locked in
either a cheap rate or they locked in a
lower price before the rates got really
low let's talk about what happens when
one of these Airbnb listings hits the
market because I actually have real life
experience with this so I had a client
recently who was looking for a house in
the Glendale Arizona area which is just
right there in Phoenix and we're looking
up to 450 000 and we had this house come
on the market that was really nice so
this house hits the market right in the
area where they want and it's for four
hundred and twenty thousand dollars now
compared to the other four hundred
thousand dollar house 400 ten hundred
four hundred twenty thousand dollar
houses in that area this one had a very
unique thing where it was just
impeccably clean like we saw houses that
were just butt ugly we saw ones that
were remodeled cheaply we saw ones that
like looked really nice but just there's
always something off about them and when
we saw this listing it was like an
impeccable condition and the amazing
part of it too was that everything in
the house was included all of the
Furniture beds even like everything was
included the AC was impecco to be
maintained it was just like this was it
it was perfect it was in a really good
area and it was crazy like that first
weekend we saw it there was multiple
offers on it already it was originally
listed at 420 we offered 430 but I
believe we asked for some concessions I
think it was like maybe one percent or
one and a half percent in concessions
and when we did our inspections we
didn't know there were some things that
needed to get repaired and we bumped up
that number like half a percentage
around there so we ended up getting
about two two and a half I believe
percentage of concessions back to the
buyer so we bought it for 430 000 didn't
have to buy this was like a first time
home buyer they didn't have to buy any
furniture they were coming from their
parents house this was perfect for them
and once we were buying it that's when
we discovered this was actually former
Airbnb and that's why they were getting
rid of it and here's the thing looking
in this area now there's been more sales
in that 420 to 450 range that support
the value so we're now we're getting
that little bit of that positive equity
in that area Whenever there is a Airbnb
listing that hits the market in one like
in an area especially that's priced
correctly it sells like crazy it it's
like it doesn't compare with the other
it's like if I give you a cup of coffee
that's a K-Cup versus something like
like brood like something that's like
with the Chemex you know I'm really into
Chemex right now the the idea when I saw
this headline that the Airbnb listings
are going to crash the market honestly
like I I kind of this is nice I I would
be great if like half of the listings
that we have were Airbnb listings those
things would sell so quick but here's
the thing they have to be priced
reasonably there's another Airbnb
listing that I saw that my client just
made an offer on it's currently I think
valued at
not valued sorry but they listed it for
like 480 and houses in those areas are
selling for like 4 40 460 ish so it's
overpriced but we offered you know 450
460 and they just flat out rejected us
now what's the difference between that
listing and the previous listing is it
the fact that it was an Airbnb well no
the fact is is the seller is being
unreasonable with what they priced that
so it's not what the previous history of
a listing that's going to cause a crash
it's going to be what people price it at
and what are people willing to pay for
that so even this overpriced listening
that's an air former Airbnb that doesn't
have any offers that rejected our low
offer
they bought the house like I think it
was five to ten six years ago they I
think bought it for like half of the
price so they have ton of equity there
they have the ability to wait and they
have the ability you know they're they
if they sell it for 50k more for 40K
less or whatever it shouldn't hurt them
right so they're gonna we're gonna give
them some time and probably after a
month or two they'll probably talk to us
again there can be a hundred Airbnb
listings that hits the market this
weekend if they're all reasonably priced
they're not only going to sell quickly
but they're going to contribute to an
increase of of value in the areas that
they sell at because people are gonna
right now there's a lot of people
looking for a house I don't I mean I
know everyone's telling you the Market's
crashing but someone who represents
buyers and all of that all types of
prices here in the in the Phoenix West
Valley East Valley I'm all over the
place it is hard to buy right now it's
competitive and it's uh when there's a
nice house that comes out that's
reasonably priced it sells quick and it
sells for more so
but if there's 100 Airbnb listings that
hit that are overpriced and they're want
they just they're basically clogging the
valley then then I can see how that can
start a rollover effect so in this time
I'm reminded of uh a response on one of
these tweets which if you don't follow
this guy I highly highly recommend you
do his name is Logan moltah me
um and I recommend everyone here follow
him because he works at the housing wire
he's also seeing the data but he
provides you an alternative perspective
I'm not saying there's one person that's
right and one person that's wrong but
when you're you know if you're going to
listen to Doom posters and just post
nothing but negative things you want to
also post listen to other side of people
who are maybe not seeing the negative
aspect of everything and in his reaction
here which I mean he's been posting a
lot since I see him last night remember
if we have an Airbnb bus it will show up
in the new listing daddy so far in 2023
the lowest newest the lowest new listing
data ever recorded in U.S history let
the data come to you first let it stick
with duration before we before the bust
happens so he is showing Altos
researches uh basically inventory data
where it's showing it's still on the
lower end new listing data as all-time
lows the total active listings are
all-time lows and this is equals a bust
and I think he highlights this tweet
here by Jamie Lane a buyer tweeted by
Str data let's get some facts straight
this is not a collapse rev pal it is is
it down 2203 yes is it down 40 percent
no someone else pulled also numbers and
they're not the same so we're gonna have
the Doom posters always say something
negative we're gonna have the people
that are we positive saying things are
great and always buy there's always
going to be people telling you what to
buy not to buy telling you to buy
everyone has a bias including me right
now if you are looking into like buying
something for yourself I'm going to tell
you what I always tell you make sure you
have your together first before who
cares what all these people are saying
okay you need to own where you live and
you should not be buying unless you have
your emergency savings down unless you
have your credit in order unless you
have your budget and your finances
finely tuned and only then you can check
and see if you have the ability to
qualify and you buy intelligently how
you do that of course so we can talk
here for another 20 minutes if you guys
have the time to do that but
I'm going to tell you guys once again
take a deep breath
look at the data look at the opposite
data follow multiple sources and really
just chill